# Group Analysis

Our initial plan was to design a multi-level VR game using portals. We immediately identified killers and achievers from Bartle’s Player Types for Gamification as our goals for a target audience, and we intended to accommodate both of those player types. The killers would seek to find the fastest way to shoot portals and navigate to the ending, competing against other players via a leaderboard, while achievers would seek the highest score by gathering in-game collectibles and attempting to beat their score each time. With this, both player archetypes would be considered in the game design.

In the final implementation we did find some success in the rudimentary implementation of the scoring and timing system. As mentioned above we had planned to have leaderboards displaying both, but in the end, we were unable to have a proper leaderboard system implemented. Due to time constraints and persistent merge conflicts, we were unable to include the scoring system and collectible system we designed. However, in this leaderboard, the fastest time is shown for each level, along with the last time. While this does not accommodate Achievers and Killers as well as the initial idea would have, there is still some element of reward for both player types, as the Achievers can challenge themselves to beat their best time, and the Killers can challenge themselves to beat other people's times.

What struck as our biggest problem was the implementation of portals – this was an arduous task; more so than any of us could have foreseen. Initially, we had all envisioned a simple portal system, with maybe a “preview” camera display what is on the other side, much like in the game the concept was inspired by. However, as we attempted to implement these portals, our expectations were tempered Just as much time was spent bug-fixing this one aspect than iterating on our design, if not more.

This did not put a damper on our game design though, as on our minds from the beginning was the potential for motion sickness, as with all VR games, this is a significant concern. Therefore, by making the portals as less of a gateway and more like a ‘teleporter’, this reduced the risk of any portal induced vertigo or motion sickness in the players. Many of the additional touches, such as visual transitions to indicate teleporting to ease motion sickness further we were unable to implement, due to the complexity of getting portal functionality up and running, and additional time restraints we faced as the deadline neared.

After user testing the mini-game, the team was able to obtain a list of problems that were rated against the severity scale outlined in the Usability Test Plan. After our first user test, we were able to solve some of the problems highlighted to us. While we managed to fix some high severity issues, we also managed to fix some lower-level issues. In hindsight, it would have been better for the team to fix the problems with a severity of 1 or 2 as more players experienced them. However, as mentioned before, the team was highly aware of the risk of vertigo and motion sickness, and the lower severity problems caused such issues for our users. We also believe that while the issues associated with vertigo and motion sickness were a lower severity, this was due to the small number of people being affected by the disorientation, but they were still traits that could induce a far more significant problem overall if still present in the game. For example, a player throwing up.

Having a second user test was beneficial for the team as in the initial test, we had fixed a range of issues; the testers in the second group indicated issues that were not highlighted to us before, or to that much of an extent. Unfortunately, due to time, factors were unable to improve any of the issues. Nevertheless, as they have been presented to us, they have the potential to be fixed if anyone of us wants to continue this game as a fun project. Specifically the issues to start on are mentioned in the Usability Report, ‘Further Recommendations’ section. The issues orbit on making the game easier for the user to understand and use. Such examples are involving the use of a tracking laser stream coming off of the handsets so the user is able to see where to aim, and also having an in-game explanation of the objective as well as a “how to”.
